hi this is a new thing I'm trying where
I made quick topical videos about AI
safety in the news
so somebody linked me a news article
today and the headline is Tesla's Elon
Musk leads Oh terminator picture
everyone playing the AI news coverage a
drinking game has to take a shot you
know the rules picture of the Terminator
means you go to drink a shot out of a
glass shaped like a skull where was I oh
right yeah so the headline Tesla's Elon
Musk leads tech experts in demanding end
to killer robots arms race this is
really interesting because it looks like
it's going to be really relevant to what
this channel is about AI safety research
but I read it and it's actually nothing
to do with that the headline is much
more literal than I expected it's about
an actual arms race for actual killer
robots ie it's about using the UN to
form international agreements about not
deploying autonomous weapon systems I
thought it was going to be about the
other arms race that might cause robots
to kill us okay so if there's one thing
that I hope this channel and my computer
file videos have made clear it's that
any safety is a difficult problem that
quite reasonable looking AGI designs
generally end up going horribly wrong
for subtle and hard to predict reasons
developing artificial general
intelligence needs to be done very
carefully double and triple-checking
everything running it passed lots of
people ironing out all of the possible
problems before the thing is actually
switched on to do this safely is going
to take a lot of smart people a lot of
patience diligence and time but whoever
makes AGI first has a huge advantage
since it probably creates a new period
of much faster progress everyone wants
to be first to publish new scientific
results anyway but the chances are that
there are really no prizes for being the
second team to develop AGI even if
you're just a few months behind a lot
can change in a few months in a world
with AGI so there's an arms race going
on between different teams different
companies different countries to be the
first to develop AGI but developing AGI
safely takes a lot of care and patience
and time you see the
problem here the team that gets there
first is probably not the team that's
spending the most time on ensuring
they've got the very best AI safety
practices the team that gets there first
is probably going to be rushing cutting
corners and ignoring safety concerns
hey remember a while back I said I was
going to make a video about why I think
Elon Musk's approach to AI safety might
end up doing more harm than good I guess
this is that so there's a school of
thought which says that because AGI is a
very powerful technology it will grant
whoever controls it a lot of power so
firstly it's important that the people
in control of it are good people and
secondly we want as many people as
possible to have it so that the power is
democratized and not concentrated in the
control of a small elite the best of the
available alternatives is that we
achieve democratization of AI technology
meaning that no one company or small set
of individuals has control over advanced
AI technology and starting from that
fairly reasonable school of thought this
is a very good and valuable thing to do
but there's another school of thought
which says that because making AGI is
nowhere near as difficult as making the
safe AGI the bigger risk is not that the
wrong person or wrong people might make
an AGI that's aligned with the wrong
human interest but that someone might
make an AGI that's not really aligned
with any human interests at all thanks
to this arms race effect that will make
people want to cut corners on alignment
and safety that possibility looks much
more likely and the thing is the more
competitors there are in the race the
more of a problem this is if there are
three companies working on a GI maybe
they can all get together and agree to a
strict set of safety protocols that
they're all going to stick to it's in
everyone's interest to be safe as long
as they know their competitors will be
safe as well but if there are a hundred
or a thousand groups with a shot at
making AGI there's really no way you're
going to be able to trust every single
one of them to stick to an agreement
like that when breaking it would give
them an advantage so it might be
impossible to make the agreement at all
and whoever spends the least time on
safety has the biggest advantage from
the perspective of this school of
thought making AGI developments open and
available to as many people as possible
might be the last thing we want to do
maybe once AGI start
closer we'll find a way to keep AI
research limited to a small number of
safe careful organizations while making
AI safety research open and widely
available I don't know but this might be
a situation where total openness and
democratization is actually a bad idea
Elon Musk himself has said that AI is
potentially more dangerous than nukes
and I want to make it clear that I have
enormous respect for him but I just want
to point out that with a not that huge
change in assumptions the open approach
starts to look like saying nukes are
extremely dangerous so we need to
empower as many people as possible to
have them
and to end the video a big thank you to
all of my excellent patreon supporters
these people in this video I especially
want to thank Michael grease I recently
uploaded a video that had an audio
problem in it the sound was only coming
out of one ear but because my patreon
supporters get access to every video I
make before the rest of the world does
one of my supporters Jimmy Gowen spotted
it and pointed it out and I was able to
fix that and then I was able to use
patreon money to get a new pair of
earphones so I want to say again how
grateful I am to all of you you really
are a tremendous help to the channel